Explaining 9 types of API testing

Top 5 Kafka use cases

How is data sent over the internet? What does that have to do with the OSI model? How does TCP/IP fit into this?

Top 5 common ways to improve API performance

CI/CD Simplified Visual Guide

There are over 1,000 engineering blogs. Here are my top 9 favorites:

REST API Authentication Methods

Linux Boot Process Illustrated

How do SQL Joins Work?

Netflix's Tech Stack

Top Architectural Styles

What does ACID mean?

Oauth 2.0 Explained With Simple Terms

The Evolving Landscape of API Protocols in 2023

Linux boot Process Explained

Explaining 8 Popular Network Protocols in 1 Diagram.

Data Pipelines Overview

CAP, BASE, SOLID, KISS, What do these acronyms mean?

GET, POST, PUT... Common HTTP “verbs” in one figure

How Do C++, Java, Python Work?

Top 12 Tips for API Security

Our recommended materials to crack your next tech interview

How To Release A Mobile App

A handy cheat sheet for the most popular cloud services (2023 edition)

Best ways to test system functionality

Explaining JSON Web Token (JWT) to a 10 year old Kid

How do companies ship code to production?

How does Docker Work? Is Docker still relevant?

Explaining 8 Popular Network Protocols in 1 Diagram

System Design Blueprint: The Ultimate Guide

Key Concepts to Understand Database Sharding

A nice cheat sheet of different monitoring infrastructure in cloud services

Top 5 Software Architectural Patterns

OAuth 2.0 Flows

How did AWS grow from just a few services in 2006 to over 200 fully-featured services?

What is GraphQL? Is it a replacement for the REST API?

HTTPS, SSL Handshake, and Data Encryption Explained to Kids

A nice cheat sheet of different databases in cloud services

CI/CD Pipeline Explained in Simple Terms

What does API gateway do?

The Code Review Pyramid

A picture is worth a thousand words: 9 best practices for developing microservices

What are the greenest programming languages?

URL, URI, URN - Do you know the differences?

What branching strategies does your team use?

Linux file system explained

Do you believe that Google, Meta, Uber, and Airbnb put almost all of their code in one repository?

What are the data structures used in daily life?

Why did Amazon Prime Video monitoring move from serverless to monolithic? How can it save 90% cost?

18 Most-used Linux Commands You Should Know

Would it be nice if the code we wrote automatically turned into architecture diagrams?

Netflix Tech Stack - Part 1 (CI/CD Pipeline)

18 Key Design Patterns Every Developer Should Know

How many API architecture styles do you know?

Visualizing a SQL query

What distinguishes MVC, MVP, MVVM, MVVM-C, and VIPER architecture patterns from each other?

Almost every software engineer has used Git before, but only a handful know how it works

I read something unbelievable today: Levels. fyi scaled to millions of users using Google Sheets as a backend!

Logging, tracing and metrics are 3 pillars of system observability

Internet Traffic Routing Policies

Subjects that should be mandatory in schools

Do you know all the components of a URL?

What are the differences between cookies and sessions?

How do DevOps, NoOps change the software development lifecycle (SDLC)?

Popular interview question: What is the difference between Process and Thread?

Symmetric encryption vs asymmetric encryption

How does Redis persist data?

IBM MQ -> RabbitMQ -> Kafka ->Pulsar, How do message queue architectures evolve?

Top 4 Kubernetes Service Types in one diagram

Explaining 5 unique ID generators in distributed systems

How Do C++, Java, and Python Function?

How will you design the Stack Overflow website?

Explain the Top 6 Use Cases of Object Stores

API Vs SDK!

Proxy Vs reverse proxy

Git Vs Github

Which latency numbers should you know

Eight Data Structures That Power Your Databases. Which one should we pick?

How Git Commands Work

How to store passwords safely in the database and how to validate a password?

What is a database? What are some common types of databases?

Docker vs. Kubernetes. Which one should we use?

Writing Code that Runs on All Platforms

HTTP Status Code You Should Know

Docker 101: Streamlining App Deployment

Git Merge vs. Rebase vs. Squash Commit

Cloud Network Components Cheat Sheet

SOAP vs REST vs GraphQL vs RPC

10 Key Data Structures We Use Every Day

What does a typical microservice architecture look like?

My recommended materials for cracking your next technical interview

Uber Tech Stack

Top 5 Caching Strategies

How many message queues do you know?

Why is Kafka fast?

How slack decides to send a notification

Kubernetes Tools Ecosystem

Cloud Native Landscape

How does VISA work when we swipe a credit card at a merchant’s shop?

What tech stack is commonly used for microservices?

How do we transform a system to be Cloud Native?

Explaining Sessions, Tokens, JWT, SSO, and OAuth in One Diagram

Most Used Linux Commands Map

What is Event Sourcing? How is it different from normal CRUD design?

What is k8s (Kubernetes)?

How does Git Work?

How does Google Authenticator (or other types of 2-factor authenticators) work? 

IaaS, PaaS, Cloud Native… How do we get here?

How does ChatGPT work?

Top Hidden Costs of Cloud Providers

Algorithms You Should Know Before You Take System Design Interviews

Understanding Database Types

How does gRPC work?

How does a Password Manager such as 1Password or Lastpass work? How does it keep our passwords safe?

Types of Software Engineers and Their Typically Required Skills

How does REST API work?

Session, cookie, JWT, token, SSO, and OAuth 2.0 - what are they?

Linux commands illustrated on one page!

The Payments Ecosystem

Algorithms You Should Know Before You Take System Design Interviews (updated list)

How is data transmitted between applications?

What are the common load-balancing algorithms?

Cloud Native Anti Patterns

Uber Tech Stack - CI/CD

How Discord Stores Trillions Of Messages

How to diagnose a mysterious process that’s taking too much CPU, memory, IO, etc?

How does Chrome work?

Differences in Event SOurcing System Design

Firewall explained to Kids… and Adults

Paradigm Shift: How Developer to Tester Ratio Changed From 1:1 to 100:1

Why is PostgreSQL voted as the most loved database by developers?

8 Key OOP Concepts Every Developer Should Know

Top 6 most commonly used Server Types

DevOps vs. SRE vs. Platform Engineering. Do you know the differences?

5 important components of Linux

How to scale a website to support millions of users?

What is FedNow (instant payment)

5 ways of Inter-Process Communication

What is a webhook?

What tools does your team use to ship code to production and ensure code quality?

Stack Overflow's Architecture: A Very Interesting Case Study

Are you familiar with the Java Collection Framework?

Twitter 1.0 Tech Stack

Linux file permission illustrated

What are the differences between a data warehouse and a data lake?

10 principles for building resilient payment systems (by Shopify).

Kubernetes Periodic Table

Evolution of the Netflix API Architecture

Where do we cache data?

Top 7 Most-Used Distributed System Patterns

How much storage could one purchase with the price of a Tesla Model S?

How to choose between RPC and RESTful?

Netflix Tech Stack - Databases

The 10 Algorithms That Dominate Our World

What is the difference between “pull” and “push” payments?

ChatGPT - timeline

What is the journey of a Slack message?

How does GraphQL work in the real world?

Important Things About HTTP Headers You May Not Know!

Think you know everything about McDonald's? What about its event-driven architecture?

How ChatGPT works technically

Choosing the right database is probably the most important technical decision a company will make.

How do you become a full-stack developer?

What’s New in GPT-4

Backend Burger

How do we design effective and safe APIs?

Which SQL statements are most commonly used?

Two common data processing models: Batch v.s. Stream Processing. What are the differences?

Top 10 Architecture Characteristics / Non-Functional Requirements with Cheatsheet

Are serverless databases the future? How do serverless databases differ from traditional cloud databases?

Why do we need message brokers?

How does Twitter recommend “For You” Timeline in 1.5 seconds?

Popular interview question: what happens when you type “ssh hostname”?

Discover Amazon's innovative build system - Brazil.

Possible Experiment Platform Architecture

YouTube handles 500+ hours of video content uploads every minute on average. How does it manage this?

A beginner’s guide to CDN (Content Delivery Network)

What are the API architectural styles?

Cloud-native vs. Cloud computing

C, C++, Java, Javascript, Typescript, Golang, Rust…

The Linux Storage Stack Diagram shows the layout of the the Linux storage stack

Breaking down what's going on with the Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) collapse
